This directory contains a program to generate good solutions based on
Jarek Wroblewski's ideas and some computer search.  There is one program,
171recon5.cpp, and 28 data files, two for each size of 139 through 578
that were used in Al Zimmermann's Programming Contest AP Math from 2021.

To build the program, a command line such as this works:

   g++ -march=native -g -std=c++17 -O3 -o 171recon5 171recon5.cpp

You can drop the -mark=native if your platform doesn't support it.
Clang works equally well.

The program, when provided with the appropriate arguments and data
file, generates an almost infinite set of good solutions.  All of
these solutions will have the same number of points set, but other than
that they will differ fairly extensively (although they are all based
on the 275x3x3/171 modular solution by Jarek).  The generation will be
very fast, likely limited by I/O once it begins (only a few seconds).
The generation are randomly selected although not fully unbiased.

The output format is concise and different form Al's format.  The output
format describes a raster scan of the solution, encoding the differences
between adjacent selected points.  The coordinate system is of a square.
If the hexagon is n on a side (say 11), then the square is 2*n-1 (here
21) in width.  The y multiplier mult is 2*w or 4*n-2 (42 in this case),
and the base value (for the 0,0 square) is at (w-1)*(mult+1) (or 860).
So to read the coordinates as a set of x/y values in the square, given
the values in a matrix, use code much like this (assuming v holds the
input values and n is the size of the hexagon):

    w = 2 * n - 1 ;
    mult = 2 * w ;
    base = (mult + 1) * (w - 1) ;
    for (int i=1; i<(int)v.size(); i++)
       v[i] += v[i-1] ;
    for (auto z: v) {
       x = (z - base) % mult ;
       y = (z - base) / mult ;
       // ... do something with x and y here
    }

As an example, you can work out the following solution for n=6.

     230 3 1 18 1 2 1 19 6 18 3 1 15 6 2 1 13 1 6 16 3 21 2 1 4 16 6 16 3 1 19 3 1

For this example, n=6, w=11, mult=22, base=230.  So the first point is
(0,0).  Then, add 3, and the next is (3,0), then (4,0).  Then we add 18,
which wraps around and goes to (1,0).  And so on.

You have 28 data files.  The data files are named scansolsm-n-1-o.log
where n is the size of the hexagon and o is a special parameter
describing the labeling.  To run the program, give the numeric
parameters followed by the data file name on the command line, as in

    ./171recon5 578 1 132 scansolsm-578-1-132.log

This will write to standard output good solutions, one per line.  The
number of numbers on each line is the number of points set in that
solution, and it will be identical for every solution generated by a
particular data file.
